# Movie Rating Prediction Using Clustering and Word Embeddings

## Motivation

Traditionally, we build a recommender system such as content-based filtering or collaborative filtering that predict ratings using
userid and movieid. In this project, I want to analyze tags generated by users and incorporate them in the predictive model to exam
how tags related to movie ratings.

## Data source

- The datasets describe ratings and free-text tagging activities from MovieLens, a movie recommendation service. 
It contains 20000263 ratings and 465564 tag applications across 27278 movies. These data were created by 138493 users between January 09, 1995 and March 31, 2015. This dataset was generated on October 17, 2016.
Users were selected at random for inclusion. All selected users had rated at least 20 movies.
- The original datasets can be found here: https://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/

## Project overviews

[Movie Rating Prediction.ipynb](https://github.com/suzygaoo/Movie-Tags-Predict/blob/master/Movie%20Rating%20Prediction.ipynb)

- In this project, I used Stanford's global word embeddings as a pre-trained model as I do not have enough text to create my own embeddings.
- After clustering words using GloVe embeddings, a baseline model, logistic regression, random forest, and XGboost were applied in the modeling process. By comparing the R-squares, random forest achieved the highest accuracy(70%), following by XGboost and logistic regression.
- Workflow: Part1: Data exploration and cleaning, Part2: Text processing using GloVe embeddings, Part3: Clustering then predict

## Challenges
Since we are dealing with a massive amount of text, deep learning might be considered to achieve better predicting result
in the future study. 
